# Fosfomycin Resistance in K. pneumoniae 
## Project summary
*K. pneumoniae* is a Gram-negative bacterium that causes opportunistic and community-acquired infections. *K. pneumoniae* easily develops resistance to multiple antibiotics as it can acquire numerous antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) from the environment and from other bacteria. As a result, there exists multidrug resistant (MDR) and extremely resistant (XDR) strains which are highly resistant to almost all the antibiotics currently in use.  
Fosfomycin is an antibiotic that has been in use in the treatment of uncomplicated UTIs and is currently being trialled, either as a monotherapy or in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of MDR. However, mechanisms of resistance have been reported with one of them being the presence of *fos* genes that encode for Fos enzymes which inactivate fosfomycin through the nucleophilic addition of substrates such as glutathione, bacillithiol, and water to the first carbon of its epoxide ring.  
Mechanisms of fosfomycin resistance have been well-studied in bacteria such as *E. coli* where they have been shown to contribute to higher minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) measurements and worse clinical outcomes for treatment with fosfomycin. However, there have been a few studies on mechanisms of resistance in *K. pneumoniae* and only a few have gone into depth on the impact of the presence of mutations in the fosfomycin transport systems and drug target and genes encoding fosfomycin-modifying enzymes.  
Therefore, the main aim of this project was to study fosfomycin resistance mechanisms in *K. pneumoniae* and in particular, the impact of the presence of *fos* genes to fosfomycin resistance levels in the bacteria.  
